# FiveRuns Dash core library for Ruby

Provides a Ruby API to push metrics to the [FiveRuns Dash service](http://dash.fiveruns.com, currently in beta.

You'll need a Dash account before using this library.

## Installation

This library is released as a gem from the official repository at http://github.com/fiveruns/dash-ruby

    sudo gem install fiveruns-dash-ruby --source http://gems.github.com

## Usage

### Monitoring Ruby Processes

See the [Ruby support pages](http://support.fiveruns.com/faqs/dash/ruby), for information on how to use this library. 

### Retrieving data

To access metric data from the Dash service, use your application's API Read Token.  For more information on tokens and how to find yours, see the [related support page](http://support.fiveruns.com/faqs/dash/tokens).

  data = Fiveruns::Dash::Data.new('YOUR-API-TOKEN')
  data.metric('foos')

## Authors

The FiveRuns Development Team & Dash community

## Platforms

This library has only been tested on OSX and Linux.  The `ruby` recipe (which collects metrics on the Ruby process) currently relies on `ps` -- so will not work on Windows.  We're actively looking for contributions to widen the number of platforms we support; please help!

## Contributing

As an open source project, we welcome community contributions!

The best way to contribute is by sending pull requests via GitHub.  The official repository for this project is: http://github.com/fiveruns/dash-ruby

## Support

Please join the [dash-users Google group](http://groups.google.com/group/dash-users).

You can also contact us via Twitter, Campfire, or email; see the [main help page](http://support.fiveruns.com), for details.

## Note

This project contains a modified copy of the json_pure gem source code, which is distributed under the [Ruby license](http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/LICENSE.txt) by [Florian Frank](mailto:flori@ping.de).

## License

    (The FiveRuns License)

    Copyright (c) 2006-2008 FiveRuns Corporation

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
    a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
    'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
    without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
    distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
    permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
    the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
    included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
    EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
    MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
    IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
    CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
    TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
    SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.


